So let's have a recap on primitive data types.
Java supports two types of data,
reference data types and primitive data types.
The data value of a primitive data type is stored in memory
and is not a location of reference to the data.
And that makes accessing primitive data types faster
and also leads to more efficient performance
when it really matters.
Unlike C sharp though, these are not objects.
Because Java allows primitive data types
which do not inherit from object like every other instance,
Java is not considered
to be a pure object oriented language.
Now there's eight primitive data types
as shown on this slide.
The first five are represented in two's complement format,
which is important,
especially for the four signed primitives.
Only the char is unsigned,
where the left most bit represents the sign,
negative or positive.
Float and Double
are floating point representations and approximations
and will not overflow more on this later.
These are used when precision
after the decimal point is critical.
Note also that Java supports a wrapper object,
a true reference data type for each primitive data type.
Right, so that was a quick recap.
Please move onto the next video
we're going to have a look at declaring variables
for primitive data types,
and some of the issues you might get asked about in an exam.
See you in the next video.